# sctgdesk-api-server

## Description

This project, sctgdesk-api-server, is a basic implementation of an API server for Rustdesk. Rustdesk is an open-source remote control software. This implementation is written in Rust, utilizing the Rocket framework. The entire REST API is documented using `rocket_okapi`. Upon launching the server, it serves Rapidoc module at `/api/doc`, which allows visualizing and testing the various API routes. The server is configured to listen on port 21114. It is designed to utilize a SQLite3 database compatible with the Rustdesk-server or Rustdesk-server-pro databases.

## Status

The server is currently under development and is not yet ready for production use.

## Licensing

This server is distributed under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License version 3.0 (AGPL-3.0).

## Authentication

The server includes basic support for authentication with a username and password. Passwords are stored in the database after being hashed with bcrypt. Additionally, similar to Rustdesk-server-pro, it supports authentication with third-party providers compatible with OAuth2. Currently, only Github and Dex (as a custom provider) are available.

## Configuration

The server requires an `oauth2.toml` configuration file to function. By default, it is expected at `./oauth2.toml`, although this location can be modified using the `OAUTH2_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable. Setting the `OAUTH2_CREATE_USER` variable to `1` enables the automatic creation of a user upon the first OAuth2 login. The user is created with the Rustdesk ID and a random password, which is displayed in the server logs.

## OpenAPI

The server is designed to be fully documented using OpenAPI. The documentation is generated using `rocket_okapi`. The server serves the Rapidoc module at `/api/doc`, which allows visualizing and testing the various API routes.  
Obviously without any test possible a Rapidoc server is deployed at [https://sctg-development.github.io/sctgdesk-api-server/](https://sctg-development.github.io/sctgdesk-api-server/)  
The typescript client api is autogenerated with `swagger-codegen.sh`

## Web console

A web console is available at `/ui` it is a work in progress and is not yet ready for production use.  
It is a stub for the future sctgdesk-api-server web console.  
The choosen framework is Vue.js. The API is automatically generated from the OpenAPI with Swagger codegen for Axios Typescript. Note the codegen is not yet ready for production use and a few modifications. For example User.accessToken is not correctly generated from data.access_token . The problem might come from Rocket-Okapi or from Swagger-CodeGen. It can be fixed by modifying the generated code.

### Development

To start the ui development server, run the following commands:

```bash
cd webconsole && npm i && npm run devserver &
VITE_DEVELOPMENT="http://localhost:5173" sctgdesk-api-server
```

It will start a nodejs ui development server on port 5173. Sctgdesk-api-server will proxy the requests to ui development server rather than serving embedded static files. Access the development ui at `http://localhost:21114/ui` .

Each time you modify the code, the server will automatically rebuild and reload the ui development server.

## Integration with Rustdesk-Server

The server is designed to be integrated with the Rustdesk-server you can easily integrate it by modifying the main.rs:

```rust
use sctgdesk_api_server::build_rocket;

#[rocket::main]
async fn start_rocket() -> ResultType<()> {
    let port = get_arg_or("port", RENDEZVOUS_PORT.to_string()).parse::<i32>()?;
    let figment = rocket::Config::figment()
        .merge(("address", "0.0.0.0"))
        .merge(("port", port-2))
        .merge(("log_level", LogLevel::Debug))
        .merge(("secret_key", "wJq+s/xvwZjmMX3ev0p4gQTs9Ej5wt0brsk3ZGhoBTg="))
        .merge(("limits", Limits::new().limit("json", 2.mebibytes())));
    let _rocket = build_rocket(figment).await.ignite().await?.launch().await?;
    Ok(())
}
```

and in the `main` function:

```rust
    let rocket_thread = thread::spawn(|| {
        let _ = start_rocket();
    });

    RendezvousServer::start(port, serial, &get_arg("key"), rmem)?;
    let _ = rocket_thread.join();
    Ok(())
```

## Limitations

* The server is not yet ready for production use. Buy a [Rustdesk-server-pro](https://rustdesk.com/pricing.html) license to get a production-ready server.  
* The Bearen tokens are stored in memory without persistence. It means that each time the server is restarted, all the tokens are lost. You will need to re-authenticate with the server.  

## CLI Usage

* User login:  
  
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://127.0.0.1:21114/api/login" \
                    -H "accept: application/json"\
                    -H "content-type: application/json" \
                    -d '{"username":"admin","password":"Hello,world!","id":"string","uuid":"string"}' 
        # Note the Bearen token in the response
    ```

* Create user:
  
    ```bash
    curl -X POST "http://127.0.0.1:21114/api/user" \
                    -H "accept: application/json"\
                    -H "authorization: Bearer viZ2ArJutFtKsg0DDC1TiV-87uSRQqGBZXAoCeHrFHc"\
                    -H "content-type: application/json" \
                    -d '{"name":"testuser","password":"test","confirm-password":"test","email":"string","is_admin":false,"group_name":"Default"}' 
    ```

* Use Rapidoc to test the API at http://127.0.0.1:21114/api/doc